hey what's up guys i'm here to do
another lesson on R&B soul style guitar
today i'm going to teach a chord voice a
chord winning b major 7
alright i'll show you how to play it now
this chord shape is just cool to know
different ways to play the same chord so
you may already know how to play major 7
like this or be made or b major 7 like
this
ok this is another way I want to teach
today alright so um this chord shape is
movable which means you can play it
anywhere on the neck I'm going to show
you how to know how to find this chord
so so you want to play a b major seven
chord first thing you're going to do is
find the root alright so you know that
the I'm on the seventh fret of the low E
string you know that this note is B okay
you may or maynot of it no no that I'm
telling you today that this notice B and
as you know the low E string of the high
E string have kind of like to say no so
if this is B that means that this is
also B okay so this is your root note
and what you're going to do is go a
half-step before this note which is B
flat okay and that's how you know we're
just kind of start ok so again you have
B here since we're playing B major seven
you're going to go ahead step back and
start there okay
knit excuse me then you're going to take
your middle finger you're going to put
it so right now I got my first finger on
the 6th fret of the high E string
I got my middle finger on the 7th fret
of the B string
I have my ring finger on the 8th fret of
the g string and my pinky on the 9th
fret of the D string
alright
okay and you can play licks using the B
major scale
okay so I got so um whatever lips you
want to play you can just kind of add in
there so BAM B major seven all right
you can grab
grab this note here you want to okay now
in the beginning what I was doing all I
was doing I literally just made that up
ten seconds ago I was just moved taking
the shape and moving it a half step okay
so now I'm at what quarters is seven
okay how do I know that this is a major
seven because my first finger starts on
a flat so then so if I go a half step up
this note is a so I know that this court
any major segment this is just a quick
simple way to kind of know it to learn
as you learn it then take this corner I
went down again whole step now I'm at G
major 7 okay how do I know that because
my first finger is on F sharp I'll go up
a half step this note is G so I'm like
okay G major 7 okay so in the beginning
if you wanted to learn that all I was
doing was let's see okay so I started
with B major seven all right strumming
pattern I'm just going sliding into it
okay so you start this Court is here
start a half step take move everything
to half step down the neck and kind of
slide into it sounds cool
crack I just wanted to show you really
quick slowly what I was going I'm just
sliding into the chords okay
so practice this shape you can literally
move it anywhere on the neck practice
figure find something that sounds good
to you you can also mix it in with other
courts I want to just focus on just this
shape so I don't confuse you but major
seven there you have it you have any
questions let me know and just have fun
with it later